# hill-random-password-generator

For this assignment we had to build the JavaScript for a random password generator based on the templates given.  The first steps were to add the prompts and confirms to collect the data needed on what was to be included in the password and how long.  These were nested in the writePassword function so that you are prompted when hitting the Generate Password button.  In addition to that, arrays were created so it included upper and lower case letters (separately), numbers, and unique characters.

The next step was working on the writePassword function.  At first I started with functions within writePassword to randomly generate indexes from the character arrays (letters, numbers, unique characters, etc.) and then randomly select which functions to pick from, but realized quickly that while it did generate random characters, it only did so once so it only returned one number, one letter, etc.  Changing course, I got rid of those functions and used a series of if statements linked to the confirm questions so that when, for examples, numbers is confirmed to be in the password, the numbers array was pushed into a master array that would determine the pool of characters eligible to select from.  

After the master array was established, a for loop was used to loop through that array and randomly pick a character (with [Math.floor(Math.random() * master.length)] to keep the parameters within the master array) with the condition being set to stop once reaches the letterCount variable from the "How many characters?" prompt is hit (since indexes start at 0).  The return value ended up dividing the letters by commas since it was pulling from an array, so with some Google Fu I figured out you can join an array with the .join("") method which cleaned up all the commas.

I did try stretching myself skill-wise by initially only having a letter array with lower case letters and trying to figure out how to convert into upper case letters if the upper case prompt was confirmed, but couldn't for the life of me figure it out.  Also, it seems like there could be a for loop that replaces all the if statements in writePassword to cycle through the character arrays and, if confirmed, loop through the indexes of those arrays to add to the master array (a loop within a loop, or loopception if you will), but also couldn't get that to work.  Due to time, I just opted for the easier, functioning route and created an upper case array and all the if statements in writePassword.  Not sure if it is accepted practice or not, but I got rid of my console.logs in the final draft to clean the code up a bit more and allow for anyone testing it to console.log wherever their heart desires if they feel so inclined.